README.md, before:

# A Differential Testing Framework to Identify Critical AV Failures Leveraging Arbitrary Inputs
![framework diagram](images/framework.png)
![example failure](images/011_Chicago_Billionaires_Millionaires_Lake_Shore_Mansions_The_North_Shore_15_frame3465.png)

# Purpose
Requested badge: ***Functional***

This repository contains the code for the ICSE'25 paper "A Differential Testing Framework to Identify Critical AV Failures Leveraging Arbitrary Inputs".
As described below, the repository contains the code for replicating the experimental analysis performed in the paper, including generating all figures and tables.
It also contains information on how to repeat the full experiment using user-provided datasets and systems.

# Provenance
This repository is available on [GitHub](https://github.com/less-lab-uva/DiffTest4AV) and archived on [Software Heritage](https://archive.softwareheritage.org/swh:1:dir:91557e8d5b7a9bd009e0e903d92bbe54d4760a64;origin=https://github.com/less-lab-uva/DiffTest4AV;visit=swh:1:snp:48002601b6ecb59da36a47f3fa7d66220654db13;anchor=swh:1:rev:55f59152dd31cfe07bf06db08ca693397d48df2a).
A preprint of the paper is [available](/DiffTest4AV_Preprint.pdf) in the repository.

# Data
The main experiment consists of providing video input to 5 different AV systems and recording their steering angles in response to this video. 

The steering angle output of the 5 AV systems are available in [/3_Process/cache/*]. 
The usage information below describes how to use the provided scripts to reproduce the data from the paper.


The input videos used in the experiment cannot be directly included in this repository due to licensing limitations. See [the datasets readme](./1_Datasets) for more information.


# Setup
With `conda` installed, run the following:

```bash
source create_env.sh
```

This will create the `difftest` conda environment and install all relevant dependencies.

# Usage
We first describe the structure of the repository and then describe how to utilize the scripts to reproduce the experimental analysis from the paper.

## Repository Structure
Folder Structure:
* [0_Setup](/0_Setup) - Information on setting up and running the SUTs used in the experiment
* [1_Datasets](/1_Datasets) - Placeholder for datasets - ommitted for licensing; see [the datasets readme](./1_Datasets).
* [2_TransformVideos](/2_TransformVideos) - Scripts to normalize data in `1_Datasets`
* :star: [3_Process](/3_Process) - Scripts to execute the experiment
  * :clipboard: [cache](/3_Process/cache) - Raw performance data from the SUTs evaluated on all videos.
  * :toolbox: :star2: [OutlierDetection.py](/3_Process/OutlierDetection.py) - Code to perform the statistical analysis of DiffTest4AV. This implementation uses the Dixon's Q test for outlier detection (`dixon`).

## Reproducing the results in the paper
The following was tested on a fresh install of Ubuntu 22.04 using [miniconda](https://docs.conda.io/projects/conda/en/latest/user-guide/install/linux.html)

With `conda` installed, run the following:

```bash
source create_env.sh  # if not run during setup above
source generate_figures.sh
```

This will launch all of the scripts in succession to compute all of the figures and tables used in the paper. The scripts are heavily parallelized and will run for ~20 minutes on a machine with 32 cores; runtimes will vary based on available hardware.

All figures will be saved in [3_Process/gen_figures/](3_Process/gen_figures). A version of these figures has been bundled with this repository; running the script will overwrite the included files.

The following table describes how to find the figures used in the paper.
NOTE: all referenced frames from the paper, e.g. Figures 1, 3, 4, 5, 6, and 9 will appear as a blank image with steering angles only since the videos are not included.


| Paper Figure | Generated file |
|-------|--------|
| Fig 1.| [image link](3_Process/gen_figures/referenced_examples/sut4/External_Jutah/cache/011_Chicago_Billionaires_Millionaires_Lake_Shore_Mansions_The_North_Shore_15/011_Chicago_Billionaires_Millionaires_Lake_Shore_Mansions_The_North_Shore_15_frame3465.png) |
| Fig 3.| [image link](3_Process/gen_figures/referenced_examples/sut4/OpenPilot_2k19/cache/video_0320_15/video_0320_15_frame404.png) |
| Table 1| [table link](3_Process/gen_figures/referenced_examples/sut4/OpenPilot_2k19/cache/video_0320_15/output_404.txt) |
| Fig 4.| [image link](3_Process/gen_figures/referenced_examples/sut4/OpenPilot_2k19/cache/video_0869_15/video_0869_15_frame222.png) |
| Table 2| [table link](3_Process/gen_figures/referenced_examples/sut4/OpenPilot_2k19/cache/video_0869_15/output_222.txt) |
| Fig 5.| [image link](3_Process/gen_figures/referenced_examples/sut4/OpenPilot_2k19/cache/video_0171_15/video_0171_15_frame252.png) |
| Fig 6.| [image link](3_Process/gen_figures/referenced_examples/sut4/OpenPilot_2k19/cache/video_0284_15/video_0284_15_frame190.png) |
| Fig 7.| [image link](3_Process/gen_figures/conf_cdf.png) |
| Fig 8a.| [image link](3_Process/gen_figures/OpenPilot_2016_conf_vs_value_hist_sut_2023_06_90__5line.png) |
| Fig 8b.| [image link](3_Process/gen_figures/OpenPilot_2k19_conf_vs_value_hist_sut_2023_06_90__5line.png) |
| Fig 8c.| [image link](3_Process/gen_figures/External_Jutah_conf_vs_value_hist_sut_2023_06_90__5line.png) |
| Table V | [table link](3_Process/gen_figures/table5.txt) |
| Fig 9a.| [image link](3_Process/gen_figures/referenced_examples/sut4/External_Jutah/cache/011_Chicago_Billionaires_Millionaires_Lake_Shore_Mansions_The_North_Shore_15/011_Chicago_Billionaires_Millionaires_Lake_Shore_Mansions_The_North_Shore_15_frame3465.png) |
| Fig 9b.| [image link](3_Process/gen_figures/referenced_examples/sut4/External_Jutah/cache/011_Chicago_Billionaires_Millionaires_Lake_Shore_Mansions_The_North_Shore_15/011_Chicago_Billionaires_Millionaires_Lake_Shore_Mansions_The_North_Shore_15_frame3466.png) |
| Fig 9c.| [image link](3_Process/gen_figures/referenced_examples/sut4/External_Jutah/cache/011_Chicago_Billionaires_Millionaires_Lake_Shore_Mansions_The_North_Shore_15/011_Chicago_Billionaires_Millionaires_Lake_Shore_Mansions_The_North_Shore_15_frame3467.png) |
| Fig 9d.| [image link](3_Process/gen_figures/referenced_examples/sut4/External_Jutah/cache/011_Chicago_Billionaires_Millionaires_Lake_Shore_Mansions_The_North_Shore_15/011_Chicago_Billionaires_Millionaires_Lake_Shore_Mansions_The_North_Shore_15_frame3468.png) |
| Fig 9e.| [image link](3_Process/gen_figures/referenced_examples/sut4/External_Jutah/cache/011_Chicago_Billionaires_Millionaires_Lake_Shore_Mansions_The_North_Shore_15/011_Chicago_Billionaires_Millionaires_Lake_Shore_Mansions_The_North_Shore_15_frame3469.png) |
| Table VI | [table link](3_Process/gen_figures/table6.txt) |

Commit message:

Update README with Docker instructions

README.md, after:

# A Differential Testing Framework to Identify Critical AV Failures Leveraging Arbitrary Inputs
![framework diagram](images/framework.png)
![example failure](images/011_Chicago_Billionaires_Millionaires_Lake_Shore_Mansions_The_North_Shore_15_frame3465.png)

# Purpose
Requested badge: ***Functional***

This repository contains the code for the ICSE'25 paper "A Differential Testing Framework to Identify Critical AV Failures Leveraging Arbitrary Inputs".
As described below, the repository contains the code for replicating the experimental analysis performed in the paper, including generating all figures and tables.
It also contains information on how to repeat the full experiment using user-provided datasets and systems.

# Provenance
This repository is available on [GitHub](https://github.com/less-lab-uva/DiffTest4AV) and archived on [Software Heritage](https://archive.softwareheritage.org/swh:1:dir:91557e8d5b7a9bd009e0e903d92bbe54d4760a64;origin=https://github.com/less-lab-uva/DiffTest4AV;visit=swh:1:snp:48002601b6ecb59da36a47f3fa7d66220654db13;anchor=swh:1:rev:55f59152dd31cfe07bf06db08ca693397d48df2a).
A preprint of the paper is [available](/DiffTest4AV_Preprint.pdf) in the repository.

# Data
The main experiment consists of providing video input to 5 different AV systems and recording their steering angles in response to this video. 

The steering angle output of the 5 AV systems are available in [/3_Process/cache/*]. 
The usage information below describes how to use the provided scripts to reproduce the data from the paper.


The input videos used in the experiment cannot be directly included in this repository due to licensing limitations. See [the datasets readme](./1_Datasets) for more information.


# Setup
## Running in Docker
A Dockerfile is provided for convenience in replication. First, build the Docker image as:
```bash
docker build -t difftest .
```

## Running Locally
If running locally (outside of Docker), first set up the Python environment.
With `conda` installed, run the following:

```bash
source create_env.sh
```

This will create the `difftest` conda environment and install all relevant dependencies.

# Usage
We first describe the structure of the repository and then describe how to utilize the scripts to reproduce the experimental analysis from the paper.

## Repository Structure
Folder Structure:
* [0_Setup](/0_Setup) - Information on setting up and running the SUTs used in the experiment
* [1_Datasets](/1_Datasets) - Placeholder for datasets - ommitted for licensing; see [the datasets readme](./1_Datasets).
* [2_TransformVideos](/2_TransformVideos) - Scripts to normalize data in `1_Datasets`
* :star: [3_Process](/3_Process) - Scripts to execute the experiment
  * :clipboard: [cache](/3_Process/cache) - Raw performance data from the SUTs evaluated on all videos.
  * :toolbox: :star2: [OutlierDetection.py](/3_Process/OutlierDetection.py) - Code to perform the statistical analysis of DiffTest4AV. This implementation uses the Dixon's Q test for outlier detection (`dixon`).

## Reproducing the results in the paper
The following was tested on a fresh install of Ubuntu 22.04 using [miniconda](https://docs.conda.io/projects/conda/en/latest/user-guide/install/linux.html)

### Reproducing through Docker

```bash
docker build -t difftest .
docker run -it --rm -v $(pwd)/:/difftest difftest /bin/bash
source generate_figures.sh
```

### Reproducing Locally
With `conda` installed, run the following:

```bash
source create_env.sh  # if not run during setup above
source generate_figures.sh
```

## Expected Results
This will launch all of the scripts in succession to compute all of the figures and tables used in the paper. The scripts are heavily parallelized and will run for ~20 minutes on a machine with 32 cores; runtimes will vary based on available hardware.

All figures will be saved in [3_Process/gen_figures/](3_Process/gen_figures). A version of these figures has been bundled with this repository; running the script will overwrite the included files.
All `png` files generated should be an exact binary match with the original files bundled with the repository; however, the `pdf` version of the images may differ in the file binary due to system variations - the image itself is the same.

The following table describes how to find the figures used in the paper.
NOTE: all referenced frames from the paper, e.g. Figures 1, 3, 4, 5, 6, and 9 will appear as a blank image with steering angles only since the videos are not included.


| Paper Figure | Generated file |
|-------|--------|
| Fig 1.| [image link](3_Process/gen_figures/referenced_examples/sut4/External_Jutah/cache/011_Chicago_Billionaires_Millionaires_Lake_Shore_Mansions_The_North_Shore_15/011_Chicago_Billionaires_Millionaires_Lake_Shore_Mansions_The_North_Shore_15_frame3465.png) |
| Fig 3.| [image link](3_Process/gen_figures/referenced_examples/sut4/OpenPilot_2k19/cache/video_0320_15/video_0320_15_frame404.png) |
| Table 1| [table link](3_Process/gen_figures/referenced_examples/sut4/OpenPilot_2k19/cache/video_0320_15/output_404.txt) |
| Fig 4.| [image link](3_Process/gen_figures/referenced_examples/sut4/OpenPilot_2k19/cache/video_0869_15/video_0869_15_frame222.png) |
| Table 2| [table link](3_Process/gen_figures/referenced_examples/sut4/OpenPilot_2k19/cache/video_0869_15/output_222.txt) |
| Fig 5.| [image link](3_Process/gen_figures/referenced_examples/sut4/OpenPilot_2k19/cache/video_0171_15/video_0171_15_frame252.png) |
| Fig 6.| [image link](3_Process/gen_figures/referenced_examples/sut4/OpenPilot_2k19/cache/video_0284_15/video_0284_15_frame190.png) |
| Fig 7.| [image link](3_Process/gen_figures/conf_cdf.png) |
| Fig 8a.| [image link](3_Process/gen_figures/OpenPilot_2016_conf_vs_value_hist_sut_2023_06_90__5line.png) |
| Fig 8b.| [image link](3_Process/gen_figures/OpenPilot_2k19_conf_vs_value_hist_sut_2023_06_90__5line.png) |
| Fig 8c.| [image link](3_Process/gen_figures/External_Jutah_conf_vs_value_hist_sut_2023_06_90__5line.png) |
| Table V | [table link](3_Process/gen_figures/table5.txt) |
| Fig 9a.| [image link](3_Process/gen_figures/referenced_examples/sut4/External_Jutah/cache/011_Chicago_Billionaires_Millionaires_Lake_Shore_Mansions_The_North_Shore_15/011_Chicago_Billionaires_Millionaires_Lake_Shore_Mansions_The_North_Shore_15_frame3465.png) |
| Fig 9b.| [image link](3_Process/gen_figures/referenced_examples/sut4/External_Jutah/cache/011_Chicago_Billionaires_Millionaires_Lake_Shore_Mansions_The_North_Shore_15/011_Chicago_Billionaires_Millionaires_Lake_Shore_Mansions_The_North_Shore_15_frame3466.png) |
| Fig 9c.| [image link](3_Process/gen_figures/referenced_examples/sut4/External_Jutah/cache/011_Chicago_Billionaires_Millionaires_Lake_Shore_Mansions_The_North_Shore_15/011_Chicago_Billionaires_Millionaires_Lake_Shore_Mansions_The_North_Shore_15_frame3467.png) |
| Fig 9d.| [image link](3_Process/gen_figures/referenced_examples/sut4/External_Jutah/cache/011_Chicago_Billionaires_Millionaires_Lake_Shore_Mansions_The_North_Shore_15/011_Chicago_Billionaires_Millionaires_Lake_Shore_Mansions_The_North_Shore_15_frame3468.png) |
| Fig 9e.| [image link](3_Process/gen_figures/referenced_examples/sut4/External_Jutah/cache/011_Chicago_Billionaires_Millionaires_Lake_Shore_Mansions_The_North_Shore_15/011_Chicago_Billionaires_Millionaires_Lake_Shore_Mansions_The_North_Shore_15_frame3469.png) |
| Table VI | [table link](3_Process/gen_figures/table6.txt) |
